It is National Day, our country's 52nd. While I'd love to say how proud I am to be Singaporean and how happy I am to see how far we've come as a Nation on our 52nd Birthday, I cannot express those feelings without a fair bit of reservation. 
On our 52nd year as an independent nation, we continue to lose buildings and spaces with little or no public consultation as to whether they really need to be demolished. 
On our 52nd year as an independent nation, we are about to go into one of the most controversial Presidential Elections in our history - one defined by race, which unfortunately is a step backward for our country. 
On our 52nd year as an independent nation, we continue to live with the reliability of a rail transport system that bears little resemblance to one that belongs in a First World country. 
On our 52nd year year as an independent nation, most of the rahs rahs and to use a millennial term - the "much feels" from SG50 have all but evaporated. 
I will be spending my National Day away from Singapore this year. Not because I do not love my country, but because I cannot look upon the celebratory atmosphere at the Parade without cynicism. As I've said before, I love my country, but my love goes beyond obvious overt displays of symbolism. 
Here is one such overt display of symbolism, and perhaps an image that tells us a little about Singapore - where playing dress-up can sometimes be more important than anything else, of National Flags properly displayed by the Residents' Committee on a block of flats that was built in 1968, whose residents would soon nervously wonder if the government will let their lease run out (and thus have the values of their property start to drop slowly but steadily by next year) or whether they will start to enjoy the "benefits" of a Selective Enbloc Redevelopment Scheme (SERS). Meanwhile, across the road, Dakota Crescent is eerily silent, its fate still hanging in limbo. It remains to be seen if all the activism and civil society work to petition for parts of the iconic estate to be saved will bear any fruit. 
Happy Birthday Singapore.
#MajulahSingapura #singapore #ndp2017 #ndp
