This is Havelock Square. 
Havelock Square, located at the fringe of Chinatown in Singapore, is also home to a large part of the Judiciary that is separate from the Supreme Court of Singapore. It is here that the State Courts and the Family Justice Courts of Singapore makes their homes. 
In the foreground of this image you will see the current State Courts Building (formerly known as the Subordinate Courts of Singapore). Completed in 1975, the building was designed by #KumpulanAkitek and some notable architects that worked on it included #WeeChweeHeng and #Sonnychan now of @csya.architecture .Gazetted in 2013, the former Subordinate Courts Building is now a conserved building. 
Partially hidden to the top left of the State Courts Building is the former Ministry of Labour and current Family Justice Courts Building. Constructed between 1928 - 1930, the building was designed by PWD government architect H.A. Stallwood, the building was neoclassical in design with some Art Deco influences. Notably it was one of the first buildings to be built by local builder @wohhupgroup . The building is today a National Monument. 
Rising behind the two (comparatively) smaller buildings is the new State Courts Building that will be completed by the end of next year. Designed by @chrislee.serie and #multiplyarchitectsllp it will serve as the new home of the State Courts. 
My point is this - here in a tiny space, there buildings from very very different eras - the 1930s, 1970s and late 2010s, will be happily coexisting next to one another and adding on the rich heritage and history not just of the buildings but also the Judiciary in Singapore. 
As we proceed to sell and demolish many of our other buildings (largely commercial and residential in nature) we run the real risk of losing their stories and histories that would be really hard to resurrect from the grave once the buildings are gone. I don’t want a Singapore devoid of buildings from a particularly important era just because they are not conserved and easily demolished. That would be really really sad.
.
.
.
#sgarchitecture #singaporearchitecture #archdaily #archivingsg #architecture #architecturesg #architecturelovers
