This is 603A Tampines Avenue 9, a block of public housing flats located within the new Tampines GreenRidges estate in Tampines North that has recently been completed.

What is interesting about Block 603A is that it is a HDB Rental Block, consisting of 254 1-Room and 193 2-Room rental units offered directly by the HDB through their Public Rental Scheme for lower income families.

Many folks aren’t aware of this, but the HDB constantly builds new rental blocks within new estates in order to ensure that every neighbourhood in Singapore will be well served by both flats for sale as well as flats for rent by those who cannot afford buying their own flats.

I am in favour of this because anyone knows that clustering many rental flats into one neighbourhood without a mix other housing types can lead to the creation of ghettos due to labelling.

Not everyone will agree with me of course, as there is a fair amount of pushback from more well-off residents who buy into the stereotype that people who need to rent a flat from the HDB are unsavoury and will bring unsavoury habits into their estate. It’s akin to the rejection of having migrant worker dormitories located in or near residential estates and these residents somehow have a mindset that while rental flats and dormitories are necessary, they much rather prefer that they are not located in one’s backyard.

Back to block 603A. The block has been so carefully designed by @g8aarchitects and @laudarchitects to integrate into the rest of the estate that if I didn’t tell you, you’d be hard pressed to guess that this block might be any different from the rest of the 14 BTO blocks that form the entire estate.

I really applaud this not just from a design and aesthetics perspective but also the fact that by applying equal measures of thought into the design process of this rental block, the additional labelling and potentially stigmatising aspect of living in a block “different” from the rest is taken out of the equation.
.
#publichousing #sgarchitecture #singaporearchitecture #vernacular #hdb #vernaculararchitecture #archdaily #archivingsg #architecture #architecturesg #architecturephotography #singapore #sonya7riii #bealpha
