In 1998, Leica announced the closest thing yet to a zoom lens for its M System - the Leica MATE (Medium-Angle Tri Elmar) 28-35-50mm f4 lens. From the get go the lens was astronomically expensive but packed all sorts of exotic optics into a small package. Then in 2007, Leica discontinued the lens suddenly. Before the MATE was discontinued, Leica did launch a WATE - the Wide Angle Tri Elmar 16-18-21mm f4 lens. Both lenses are priced firmly in the “if you need to ask, then it’s not for you” region.

So where am I going with this post? You see, the iPhone 12 Pro that I am now using is very much like using a Leica Tri-Elmar.

Like the Tri-Elmar, the iPhone 12 Pro effectively has three completely usable focal lengths. The Tri-Elmars were not zoom lenses and could not be used as such. Because the iPhone 12 Pro uses digital zooming between the three focal lengths, you should avoid using the iPhone cameras like a zoom as well if image quality is important to you.

Unlike either Tri-Elmar, the iPhone 12 Pro’s range is actually much wider and covers more than both lenses, with a 13mm, 26mm and 52mm (4x) cameras on one phone.

Of course the Leica isn’t an iPhone and the iPhone will never be a Leica, but these three images I made here with the iPhone 12 Pro from the exact same vantage point with the Ultra Wide, Wide and Telephoto cameras just reminded me so much of the Tri-Elmar that I had to write about it.

It really does help that in this second generation of the Ultra Wide Angle camera on the iPhone, distortion has been completely corrected and I am happy to use the UWA camera with no reservations.

And oh, this is Mei Ling Street in Queenstown and those are blocks 160 and 161, the HDB’s very first point blocks that were built in 1969. Each point block has three separate lift lobbies not connected to each other serving four units per floor. Today they are the only two surviving blocks of this typology left in the whole of Singapore.

#shotoniPhone12Pro with the UWA camera 

#hdb #publichousing #sgarchitecture #singaporearchitecture #singapore #archdaily #archivingsg #architecture #architecturesg #architecturelovers #architecturephotography #architectureporn #iphone
