Having photographed the lotus pond and the skyline at the @artsciencemuseumsg of @marinabaysands so many times, I find it both challenging and exhilarating to continue to find new ways of representing the space. 

Over the course of the last month, I have been testing the new SEL14f18GM ultra wide angle lens for @sonysingapore that was just announced on 20 April and now that the embargo is lifted, I can finally share images from it. 

The 14mm focal length is not new, in the era of the "trinity" zoom lenses of the 16-35, 24-70 and 70-200 focal lengths, many brands would also have a 14mm ultra wide angle prime lens usually with a modest aperture of f2.8 on offer. The 14mm lenses from a generation or two ago were generally huge, heavy and not very sharp in the corners. 

But we live in 2021, and now Sony has managed to create a compact and lightweight 14mm f1.8 lens that lets in more than a stop more light than a 14mm f2.8 AND is sharp in the corners at f1.8. This new lens will be a boon for those wanting to do astrophotography but for an architectural photographer like myself, the ability to shoot at dusk without a tripod is very very much welcome for all the times when you just can't which brings us back to this image. 

For those of you who have photographed at the Lotus pond at the Art Science Museum, you'll know that for the best reflections, you need to hover your camera directly over the water. This has several inherent risks of course, like an inability to use a tripod and also the camera going swimming. Now, the pond is also pretty dark at dusk with no lights illuminating the plants so what I did was to handhold my camera over the water with my right hand and hold my iPhone in my left with the light switched on to fill in the plants. With a maximum aperture of f1.8 (that renders a very usable and sharp image) and a shutter speed of 1/6, I was able to get away with shooting this at ISO 200.
.
#bealpha #sonyalpha #sonysingapore #sony #sonyalphasg #sonyalphaprofessionals #singapore #landscape #cityscape #architecturephotography #landscapephotography #architecture #sel14f18GM #sonya7riv
