Having walked the Kreta Ayer area many many times and driven straight down South Bridge Road either toward Neil Road or Tanjong Pagar Road, I have often wanted to line up in a photo Pinnacle @ Duxton with the Jinrikisha Station in the foreground. As one goes closer to the junction, the likelihood of this photo happening becomes less and less. As move further away from the junction however, other buildings and trees start to get in the way. 

Last week I found myself at a shoot which elevated me four storeys above South Bridge Road and off the roof terrace of the building I was photographing, I found this amazing view.

The Jinrikisha Station was built in 1903 and opened in 1904 as the main terminal and operations HQ for rickshaws in Singapore. A punishing and labour intensive endeavour, rickshaws were finally banned in Singapore in 1947. 

The Jinrikisha Station was believed to have been designed by the then Chief Architectural Assistant to the Municipality D. M. Craik with Smanuel Tomlinson the Municipal Engineer. Craik later joined Swan and Maclaren in Penang after the First World War. It is probably this fact that led to an erroneous attribution of the Jinrikisha Station to Swan and Maclaren which floated around in the mid to late 1980s prior to the conservation of the building. 

The Jinrikisha Station was conserved by the @urasingapore in 1987 as part of the then "Chinatown Historic District". 

Pinnacle @ Duxton, completed in 2009, marked the start of the Housing and Development Board's 21st century vision of the super high-rise public housing apartment block. Comprising seven 50-storey towers joined at the roof and the 26th floors by link bridges forming two massive sky gardens, the development consist of 1848 flats in total. 

Designed by ARC Studio Architecture + Urbanism led by the husband and wife team of Khoo Peng Beng and Belinda Huang, Pinnacle @ Duxton really led the way in the direction of public housing since then. 

#shotoniphone14promax #singapore #archivingsg #architecturesg #sgarchitecture #conservation #chinatown #jinrikisha #jinrikishastation #pinnacleduxton #hdb #publichousing #architecturephotography #singaporearchitecture #tanjongpagar
